Throughout this lesson, we'll mostly be covering
new concepts through coding and exercises.
But before we dive in,
there's a few important concepts to understand without
code that will go over in this and the next section.
To start in this video,
I'll answer some of the bigger questions surrounding
decentralized storage including how it compares to existing solutions.
To answer this question,
we have to zoom way out and think about what the internet even is.
In short, it's a collection of protocols or rules meant
to decide the best way to move and share information across a network.
Many of these protocols were originally suggestions by
developers that were adopted as best practices over time.
This is similar to how the block chain space is now,
with everyone contributing towards creating a better future.
One of the protocols that has come to dominate the web is HTTP.
We all use HTTP everyday but to be precise,
HTTP is a protocol that defines how messages are formatted and transmitted by the web.
It also helps determine the actions that
web servers and browsers take when given certain commands.
This has worked extremely well in the past but like many things in the blockchain space,
we think it can be improved.
This is where distributed storage comes in.
It's goal is to be a replacement for the HTTP protocol.
It's trying to reimagine how we format and transmit information over the web.
It's embracing all the same blockchain principles
like decentralization and peer-to-peer networks,
and applying them to file storage.
Similar to how Bitcoin didn't want
financial transactions to be controlled by centralized banks,
IPFS doesn't want our data to be controlled by centralized tech companies.
For example, Facebook, Amazon, Netflix, Google,
and others are amazing companies that provide us with a ton of unique services.
The problem is, everything we do on their platforms generates data that they own.
It's up to them to manage how this information is stored and distributed,
and they can control what we see and what we don't see.
Even if these companies get it right,
there's still the chance that governments will decide what
information is and isn't allowed to be seen by their citizens.
As an example, citizens from the country of Turkey woke up
one day to find that their access to the internet had been taken away from them.
What are you supposed to do when the government blocks your access to information?
Similarly, many of us use Google every day but it's been blocked by countries like China,
several Middle Eastern countries,
and a few other places around the world.
This inability to share information keeps us from making progress as a global community.
Currently, there are a few technologies trying to tackle this problem.
Most notable are IPFS,
the InterPlanetary File System and Swarm,
a project built by Ethereum,
as well as others like Storage, and SIA.
All these protocols are attempting to solve the problems of
decentralized file storage to help redefine
the way we manage and distribute files online.
These ideas work as a perfect complement
to the decentralized applications we've been creating.
Ethereum, while helping us build these decentralized applications,
only really decentralizes the computation by using the Ethereum Virtual Machine.
One problem with Ethereum,
is that it's an extremely expensive way to store files.
So, to deal with this, we still have to use things like cloud storage providers,
including Google Cloud, Amazon Web Services,
and others to host our applications.
But if you take decentralized computation and centralize the storage,
is that really a decentralized application at all?
The answer is up for debate by the community,
but that's exactly where decentralized storage comes in.
They work as the storage providers,
and allow you to decentralize an entirely new layer of your application.
Hopefully now, you understand the goals of decentralized storage,
how it aims to compete with the HTTP protocol,
and the benefits of choosing this over
traditional centralized technologies for hosting your application.